## Parenting

[[Life/Parenting Log]]
We went to the dentists for the kids yesterday. All is good, but the dentist asked the kids to brush their teeth twice a day again. I agreed with the kids that if they brush their teeth with 2 consecutive times, they will get one token which can be translated to 5 minutes of screen time. They agreed. I also explained that I will only count the times when they are with me (Monday morning brush at Sheri's won't count), and it must be two consecutive streak. 

Last night, I experimented a new way of practicing reading with Ruby: I set the audible reading speed at the lowest, at 0.7, for the first book of Zipzer, and let Ruby follow the reading at the same time. I encouraged Ruby to read as loud as she can. She struggled with catching up with the speed, but after 2 chapters (5 and 6), I asked that we experiment a new way: let the audible read one paragraph when she silently following, and then she would read the same paragraph and see how it goes. I think I can see she is reading smoother after listening Audible to read that sentence. It seems she is less likely to be stuck with a word she does not know how to read or sound it out. 

## Coparenting
[[Life/Coparenting Log]]
I messaged Sheri last night asking about Summer vacation plan. This year she has the first choice, but I want to take the kids to China as early as possible, ideally right after the school is out on June 18, 2026. The reason is that Shenzhen is less hot earlier in the Summer, and I want to take the kids travel in China and want to do that before the Chinese students (mostly highschool students) are out. Lastly, I found that Cathay Pacific is adding a new directly flight between Hong Kong and Seattle, and I want to book earlier to take advantage of it. The flight time is only 13 hours! 

