Yesterday (Friday) was a very busy day, juggling between two jobs as I finally finish my week-long colonoscopy. I finally had a 1-on-1 with Nikhil from ServiceTitan. I apologized for my flakiness on the previous Friday when I messed up with our meeting (I was not able to make the mic work when meeting him at the airport on my flight to Irvine). He accepted my apology. 

[[Life/Anxiety]] [[Life/Parenting Log]]
I also decided to book the weekend trip to Suncadia with the kids. Next Monday is also a non-school day, but last week I have had stress about not being available for both jobs, so I decided only book two nights and return on Sunday, with the plan that I will work on Monday and let the kids stay home. After an intense day, my mind started to relax on our way to Suncadia. As soon as we arrived, we jumped into the outdoor pool (we are staying at the lodge), I felt much more relaxed. As a matter of fact, I slept very well last night. The watch says my stress level is around 28. I believe since Tuesday evening after the meetings with Ben and Johnny, my sleep stress level had been as high as 80. This gives me hope, that I actually can handle this level of stress, although it took 3 days, and maybe playing in the warm pool with kids has a super de-stressing effect on me.

This morning we went to the fitness center and spent two hours playing in the pool. I ended up staying in the hot tub because the indoor pool feels a bit cold for me. We did the fish shed hike from the lodge, the same hike we do every time. Then in the afternoon we played in the outdoor pool outside the lodge. 

We arrived at the restaurant at 5:30, and that was the earliest available time. This means that I need to make reservations first. I remember last time we were here, we had the same problem. Not only could we not find a table in the restaurant in the lodge, we drove around and most local restaurants were fully booked. We ended up sitting at the bar area, and I ordered Suncadia Trail Cobb, which I enjoyed.

[[Dating]]
I have to admit, a weekend trip to Suncadia and spend time in the pool is super relaxing. I think it is a much better deal compared to the weekend dating trip to Ivrine, CA. 