# **2025.05.29 Spark-on-k8s Plan**

Status: *In progress*  Author: [Yi Chen](mailto:yichen@stripe.com)    Created: May 29, 2025  Last Updated: May 29, 2025

# High Level Plan

* Short-Term ( by Jun 20, 2025 before my vacation to China)  
  * Invite the full DI team to align on Spark-on-Kubernetes discussions, including roadmaps, priorities, and key decisions[\[1\]](#bookmark=id.q4gth95k2noz)  
  * Review and discuss the metrics presented during the **May 22 executive review**, along with the feedback from that meeting[\[2\]](#bookmark=id.v3izs6hdd0qo).  
  * Define what DI needs to present by the **July 31 executive review** to help inform and motivate a confident decision[\[3\]](#bookmark=id.r0zspta65xq9).  
  * Identify the shortest path to obtain the data needed for decision making (e.g., realistic baseline performance/cost numbers)[\[4\]](#bookmark=id.jum1di33bket).  
* Med-Term (by Jul 30, 2025 before the next executive review)  
  * Work toward **establishing internal consensus** within the DI team around a shared, evidence-based understanding of Spark-on-Kubernetes’ benefits and risks.  
    * Acknowledging the maturity risk: Acknowledge the maturity risk: since Spark-on-Kubernetes isn’t yet widely adopted across the industry, we should look for opportunities to connect with peer companies that have explored this path (e.g. Pinterest). Ideally, we can involve the full DI team in those conversations to gain first-hand insight into the benefits and challenges, for development, migration, and operation, which will help build team readiness and confidence.  
  * Work toward de-risking the Spark-on-k8s project **across Spark user teams**  
    * Address the **double-migration concern**: explore and brainstorm paths to a **seamless migration strategy**. The goal is to reduce user friction by offering a controlled, low-effort path from EMR to Kubernetes—possibly by building on top of EMR 7 and using feature flags.  
    * **Partner with early adopters**: engage closely with key customers (eg. SqlPen and DIG) who went through the migration. Create a “[friction log](https://paul.copplest.one/blog/friction-logs.html)” to capture pain points and highlight areas where engineering effort is needed to provide a feature-parity experience for Spark users. This should cover both migration, development of new jobs, and operations (debugging failed jobs).   
    * Interview with key customers (DIG, MF), to discuss other known risks and potential solutions, including migration effort, future operational efforts. Get early buy-ins from these key Spark users. We need to identify all known potentially blocking issues[\[6\]](#bookmark=id.w1e9yla8p8c3) and the significance of them to our users.  
  * The DI team should also align with a decision making framework regarding Spark-on-k8s  
    * If all is good from the above work, we can proceed to recommend Spark-on-k8s as our Spark platform. If there are only limited concerns that we have a plan to address, and assume we have figured out a seamless and transparent migration path from EMR 7 to Bedrock, we can recommend the migration to EMR 7 first (to take care of the Spark version upgrade), and DI team can do the next migrate later (this is why I recommend we figure out the viability of using such  bridge first so it can create more options for us).

# Background

The DI team has been following a parallel strategy, with engineering resources split between improving EMR and prototyping Spark-on-Kubernetes. While there’s strong interest in Spark-on-Kubernetes across the team, there have been some concerns about our overall readiness to adopt it at scale. With the EMR 6 end-of-life approaching (mid FY27), it’s critical that we provide clear direction to both the DI and DE orgs. Our first step is to align the DI team around a shared understanding of the challenges and opportunities ahead, and to focus on the shortest path to gather the data needed to inform the next stage of decision-making.

# Detail Plan

## \[1\] Enable the whole DI team for spark-on-k8s discussions, including road maps, key decisions

I noticed that the metrics presented in the May 22, 2025 The meeting did not get enough feedback from the team. As a result, they are overly optimistic about the benefits of Spark-on-k8. The first-step is to have the whole DI team review these metrics, identify the gaps, and what data we need to gather before the next meeting that can inform the decision making.

So far, the spark-on-k8s project decision making does not involve folks outside of the project team. I feel it is important for everyone to be informed because we are all at stake and we all need to be on call for both systems.

## \[2\] Review the metrics presented in the May 22, 2025 executive review meeting, and the feedbacks

The metrics presented in the meeting are overly optimistic and it introduces significant bias for decision making. We will review these metrics together, identify the gaps. We will take the feedback from stakeholders (Johnny, Suzhanna) and figure out a plan forward. 

## \[3\] Define what we need for the July 31 review meeting

We need to focus the effort on important data for the July 31 meeting that can inform the decision making. Early evidence shows that spark-on-k8s can provide at least the same level of job reliability with those on EMR. We need to provide defensible data regarding cost. We also need to have clarity on how the migration would work with Spark users. Ideally, we can figure out a way that can migrate the Spark jobs seemingly, almost transparently. That way, two-migration would not be a major concern for users.

## \[4\] Identify the shortest path to obtain the data needed for decision making

There are two known priorities at the moment:

* Because the cost metrics presented on May 22 are overly optimistic, we need to focus on getting more accurate data. This means that we need to migrate a whole EMR cluster, instead of a subset of jobs. We may need to prioritize the engineering resources between the team (e.g. have Tay work full-time on Spark-on-k8s instead of the current part-time basis).   
* Regarding the concern that some Spark users may need two migrations, first to EMR 7, then to Bedrock. My intuition is that there may be a way to significantly reduce this risk. This is based on the following assumptions:  
  * According to AWS, the main engineering effort for EMR 6 to EMR 7 upgrade is the upgrade of Spark version. This means that the “distance” between EMR 7, to the Kubernetes with a matching Spark version is very short. This means that if we can build a bridge between the Airflow operators for EMR 7 jobs and those for Bedrocks, we can potentially able to provide transparent, controllable migration to our users.   
  * If this is confirmed to be true, then there is no double-migration effort for our Spark users: they can either go straight to Bedrock, or EMR 7\. If they go to EMR 7, we can migrate them later automatically with minimum effort from them. 

\[5\] Work toward establishing internal consensus within the DI team

The data from Spark-on-k8s are promising, but there are a lot of hopes in all aspects. We need to ground the team to facts that we can measure and defend for our decision. 

For example, we need to come up with a cost benchmark that show real numbers, not estimates or with complicated dependencies on accurate cost attribution which is not readily available. 

We also need to have realistic performance numbers. This is because we can easily improve performance of most jobs by simply giving more resources to existing EMR clusters. We cannot present Spark-on-k8s as providing both cost savings and faster performance at the same time without convincing evidence. Migrating a whole EMR cluster will provide insights on the cost-performance tradeoffs, and can be a driving confidence for our decision making.

## \[6\] Spark logs issue and its significance for adoption

Spark logs have been a long-standing concern for Spark users. As recently as April 2025, concerns about logging still came up—[Travis flagged it again at that time](https://slack-pde.slack.com/archives/CJFHE7AR3/p1745964322801239). From what I understand, this issue could become even more challenging with Spark-on-Kubernetes. I plan to follow up with both the team and our users to see whether it’s been fully resolved. If not, we’ll need to understand how much effort would be required to address it.

