
#interview/2022


* I started leetcoding from March 1st after I realized and accepted that I have to leave Airbnb. I should have started earlier, as soon as I am sensing a negative performance review.
* I was struggling with mental and physical health issues in the first few weeks of leetcoding. I pushed forward anyway. It was the right move. I felt much more confident after the first month of leetcoding, which means that even though I felt sick for the first few weeks, I am still productive.
* I started to feel confident about coding after I am able to detect common patterns and common solutions. This is an improvement from the last interview preparation about 5 years ago. The difference is that now I can read the official "solution" for difficult questions on leetcode, which makes the pattern more obvious. For example, the pattern of "two pointer" solution started to be obvious. The ability to use leetcode to practice the same solution technique deliberately also helps.
* I found meeting people during interview also inspiring. So far the manager interview from Databricks and from ByteDance is most inspiring. The manager in Databricks inteview joined Google in 2006, and he is obviously a very senior person, no bullshit, straight to point. The manager in ByteDance interview is in Shanghai and he has very big goals, and he used terms like "my mission", which is inspiring for me because in most of my career I have been trying to be a good follower, and I will let others to define my mission.
* Much of the learning from leetcoding is by "verbalizing" the lessons, the patterns and the thinking process. Can I apply this technique for management and abstract thinking? Can I verbalize the process and patterns for leadership, management activity, and life events? Do I have the will to think, to verbalize all these scenarios and patterns in the area that I am not familiar with (leadership, management)?
* It was very frustrating to leetcode, when encounter difficult HARD questions, but so far the real questions encountered in the interviews are relatively simple.
* Talking to real people after kicking off the interview process was helpful. I am getting more and more confident especially after getting the Deliverr offer.
* Reading the solution section on Leetcode is helpful. I noticed that some of my solutions was not the best solution. Also learning other possible solutions helps me to identify patterns in programs and solutions.
* I feel that the talking to people part of interviewing process, especially with senior managers, interesting. Maybe I should continue to having those interviews so that I can continue to learn from those people?
* After reading a LeetCode solution, it is still very helpful to write the code myself, to actually take the ownership of the idea. This is because real learning happens when I learn independently, not by reading. Even if I can't make it work, I am still learning a lot.
* Although I thought the interview will be similar to the previous round when I was interviewing for senior IC role, I noticed a lot more behavior questions. Later I realized I did ask and apply for staff level role, which does have more weight on behavior, leadership skills, and cross team impact. I do need to demonstrate that at my current level before I can get to the next level, even through changing companies.