- I have decided to sell my rental property. The address is 2516 175th AVE NE, Redmond, WA 98075
- I bought this property in 2005 August, at $320k, And they lived there for a few years. IN 2014,I turn it into a rental property. The rental income is $1995/month. 
- Since it became a rental more than 10 years ago, I have only had the same renter, who is very happy living there because I haven't raised his rent For ten years 
- Ten years ago when I signed the lease with this renter, we had a one-year lease and I believe since then the lease has not been renewed so I believe this has turned into a month-to-month lease. 
- There is a recent law change last year, I believe, for Washington state regarding rent control and I believe that applies to my property. I'm not a hundred percent sure though because this property has been a month-to-month lease for about ten years. 
- I already know two real estate agents, including the agent who helped me find a renter so he's familiar with this property in some sense. 
- One of the questions I have is whether I should talk to the renter first and ask him if he is interested in buying this property. The reason is that if I don't talk to him and need to talk to the real estate agent, there is a conflict of interest. If I talk to the renter directly there is a chance that we can bypass the agent and save the agent fee. 
- The advantage of talking to the agent and giving up the chance of selling directly to the renter is that he may be more familiar with the market. This only makes sense when the market is really hot but I don't believe the market is really hot now. Also this property is not maintained well. The back fence is still broken; a lot of things are broken and it's not fixed so I doubt that I will get higher than the market recommended price. I actually expect to get a much lower price than what the Rata thing websites recommended. 
- Given all that we know so far, please recommend a strategy on selling this rental property. In terms of strategy what I mean is who I should talk to first and how I should approach the contact. 
- I also expect you to search online for the latest market information in the area. I am not based on any general assumptions. 