
#book/awakened


- Our tendency when we feel helpless or anxious is to control these feelings by lashing out at others, in this case at our children. In psychological terms, we refer to this as "projecting" our pain onto another, so that it looks like the other is the cause of our paoin. Instead of reacting to our children because of what they are showing us about ourselves, **the conscious response is to look into the mirrow they are holding up to us, allowing ourselves to become aware of the many ways in which we still behave like children ourselves.**
- The more immature we are emotionally, the more our children will present us with complexes, insecurities, and behavior problems. This is their way of saying, "hey, parents, I'm here to show you that you have some growing up to do. Can you please get on with it so I can move on and be who I'm supposed to be? I'm doing you a huge favor by showing you exactly what you need to do in order to become a mature person. The sooner you do so, the sooner I can free myself from the burden of being your mirrow."
- Is it your child, or is it you?
	- We tell ourselves that if we could just get the child to "do" or "not do" certain things, we wouldn't react the way we do. It's a game in which both parent and child are always trying to stay one step ahead of the other. Needless to say, the game results in anger, anxiety, and frequently disappointment and even sadness.
	- Conscious parenting is a game changer because it doesn't try to change the child, just ourselves as parents.
	- It holds that once the parent creates the right conditions, the child will naturally change and evolve toward higher consciousness. 
	- Conscious parenting addresses the fear that lurks behind so many of the ways we parent, all the while imagining we are doing "the right thing," as well as how we so readily react to our children with intense emotion. Our growing awareness of the ways in which our emotional reactivity obscures our ability to connect with our children allows us to reflect upon new ways we can design mindful responses to them.

How our children are our awakeners
- To exercise domination over our children is a huge temptation for our ego, which loves to feel powerful and in control. After all, who else allows us near-total control over their life? You cannot do it at work. Or with your parents or siblings or friends. Often, your ego thinks the only relationship you can have complete control over is the one with your child.  If we only realized how this kind of control is actually indicative of a weak sense of inner power, we might reconsider our ways.
- If we embrace the mirroring of our immaturity that our children offer us, we have a chance to become profoundly altered. The most ordinary, everyday interactions with them in even the tiniest matters then become a catalyst for change.
- Take for example the mother who complains that she loses her temper with her children because they never seem to listen to her in the morning, which means they habitually arrive late at school. Instead of the traditional approach of giving instructions more forcefully and more often, what if we explore whether the mother is disorganized and frequently tardy? Is she herself unable to function well in the mornings? Ah, now we have shifted the focus away from what the children need to change to what the mother may now need to transform within herself. The mother may need to look in the mirrow and ask herself, "Is my child in some way reflecting the way I tend to operate? Are there ways I need to restructure my life so I can be more organized?" We now realize that our lack of organization is undermining the healthy patterns of behavior we are seeking to teach. 

A Shift of Focus
- By shifting the focus away from the child and onto the parent's inner transformation, it holds the potential to awaken families in deep and fundamental ways. 
- It turns the mirror on all the ways our reactions to our children are unhealthy, it challenges us to explore our unconscious inner workings and confront aspects of ourselves that lurk in the shadows.
- By not allowing us to rest on "how things were done in my childhood," we are forced to discover new ways to relate to our children, moment after moment, handcrafting our responses to match the child before us. This forces us to ask ourselves, "how can I use this moment with my child to learn more about myself?"
- "You were experiencing a host of feelings while relating to your child. You were feeling helpless and out of control, frustrated and angry. All of these emotions are really manifestations of fear. You don't realize it, but the true trigger of your reactions was your own fear, not your child's behavior."
- Conscious parenting is concerned with the actual roots of our acting out as parents, not so much our children's acting out, it avoids quick fixes and Band-Aids. Instead, we  undergo transformation as moms and dads. 