- When I took over the kids from Monday, Laurence was really sick already. Sheri took him to the ER in the evening, and both of them were diagnosed as influenza A. It turns out that this is the worst flu season in the last 25 years, according to the news. Ruby started to get sick yesterday morning and she has slept whole day yesterday morning. She would ask for screen time but after 15 minutes, she would be so tired that she has to go back to sleep. 
- Yesterday evening, I took Laurence to urgent care again because the Monday ER does not seem to help much. On Tuesday (yesterday), Laurence did not eat any food or drink any water, according to what I heard from Sheri. He started vomiting on Monday, so by yesterday, he tried to vomit six times, but he did not have anything to vomit. That is the reason why I took him to urgent care. The urgent care doctor says that his vital signs are good, there is no sign of dehydration. Especially the fact that he is able to push back and tell us that he does not want to eat anything or drink anything means that he is not dehydrated. The doctor seems to imply that only when Laurence is lethargic, and that is when it is clear sign he is dehydrated and we need to act. I'm not happy that the doctor seems to imply that we already know Laurence hasn't had any water for a day and looks like we are just waiting for him to be dehydrated because they don't offer any help. The doctor did offer a medicine to suppress his nausea. Hopefully it will help him. Ruby seems to be pretty good at taking care of herself, even though she asked for scrim time. But she knows that she's tired and she would go back to sleep. She always makes sure that she will drink enough water and pee, and she will report that the color of her pee is the right color means that she's doing well. She's not dehydrated. I encouraged Ruby and told her that I'm really happy and proud that she knows how to take care of herself. 
- Today from around late morning, Laurence seems to recover. He started to feel hungry and he started to drink water without vomiting even though he said he has a feeling of nausea. By lunch time, he was able to eat a total of 4 chicken nuggets, which is a size of huge progress in improvement. Ruby is also recovering. 
- I send the kids to Sheri's by 2:00 p.m. today, and I'm really happy that both of them are recovering well. But by then, I am also exposed to their virus for about 48 hours, so I went to the urgent care myself thinking that I would get a time if blue medicine to prevent me from getting sick. The urgent care did a virus test, and my result is negative. The doctor says it's not likely that I will get sick since I will be away from kids for two days. The urgent care visit cost me about $124 copay. This is probably because I have ADHD insurance and this is the beginning of the year. I learned that this is actually a more expensive co-pay for urgent care, even though urgent care does get billed at a more expensive tier than normal doctor visits. Still having the peace of mind that I will not get sick with the flu, seeing that Ruby and Laurence are in bed for almost two days each, sleeping whole days. 