#pyspark 


TODOs
- [ ] How to measure PySpark project for 2023 perf review?
- [ ] Find all potential users for 2023 for PySpark.#
- [ ] Understhand this: https://groups.google.com/a/stripe.com/g/ds-shipped/c/m9Hvkbrv5Iw/m/68J_yHXDAgAJ




### 2023-04-06
Project Balance
- [Project Balance Roadmap](http://go/project-balance)
		- **Vision**
			- Stripe will be able to intentionally trade off risk and reward centrally for a majority of actions for better UX and higher margins. Explicitely trade off predicted losses with predictor user value (future revenue). Take into account the probability of making an incorrect call on a user's risk, and balance the upside of expanding/allowing capabilities with the downside of losses we may incur in each case. 
			- The system will evolve such that each component in the tradeoff can become more accurate and more comprehensive. 
		- Problems
			- Incorrect or overly invasive risk actions on valuable users create customer pain and reduce margins for Stripe.
			- Extreme swings from loss savings to improve UX leads to bad experience for users, more losses. This is because we don't have a system that allow us to intentionally trade off UX vs. losses and set our risk appetite, or have clarity on the tradeoffs we are unintentionally making today.
			- Our exemption system, beehie, is being abused (we are examping 90k merchants). This is a risk. We do not audit this list.
			- Our vertical team focus on fraud, credit, supportability, etc has led to fragmented systems that take uncoordinated actions that clobber each other, and try to solve similar problems (e.g. Orca, Credit Balance, DRS). As a result we have not been able to optimize for a good user experience.
		- Roadmap
			- Q1: 70% of Credit decisions made through Balance, 100% ML-driven Fraud decisioning is ready (for 3DS+Gelato, Rejections, Reviews), shadow scoring, and evaluated. Reduce beehive by 500 merchants.
			- Q2: Reduce all-in cost of risk actions by 10% relative to Jan 2023. Model-driven Fraud decisions are live on Balance, resulting in a 20% reduction in oerturneed Fraud ML-driven decisions. 
	-
- [PySpark meeting notes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1iJi3c7Dw9ltU1mBbWWQITCoYgVDg45qcNIl-UP7hYUg/edit#heading=h.t0k4sm6t01hl)
	- Balance is part of risk, Dan and Juan (Fraud Detection) will be the first Tecton users.
	- We will use Tecton for backfill.
	- https://jira.corp.stripe.com/browse/MLEXP-887
	- https://git.corp.stripe.com/stripe-internal/zoolander/blob/proj-balance-efl/src/python/flyte/fraud_intelligence/utils/airflow.py
	- Looking up the project balance roadmap: 
		- Juan is an MLE, who is a teammate of Dan Brown
		- Dan Brown is a Staff MLE at Fraud Detection team, reporting to Yucheng Tu.
		- Soucindar is an Staff DS, reporting to Nikhil Saxena.
	- Their current flyte/spark code: https://git.corp.stripe.com/stripe-internal/zoolander/blob/master/src/python/flyte/fraud_intelligence/utils/spark.py
		- Looks like they use sampling in their `bootstrap` function, which may be of interest for our prioritization.
		- `spark_s3_task`: it will trigger a scala Spark job, provided by flyte_spark_tasks.

### 2023-04-02

Run Docker on Hadoop, see http://events17.linuxfoundation.org/sites/events/files/slides/DockerOnHadoop.pdf
- This shows that it is possible to use LCE to run Docker on Hadoop, instead of using DockerContainerExecutor (which has been deprecated)
- Docker must be installed on all NodeManager nodes. 
	- Using label only apply for capacity scheduler.


### 2023-03-15
How does EMR Serverless use Docker?

### 2023-03-14

What's involved in Dockerize Yarn? See [Uber's blog](https://www.uber.com/blog/hadoop-container-blog/)
- Main challenges:
	- manual in-place mutation of hosts led to drifts that surprised us.
	- Fleet-wide changes took forever to plan and run manually. For example, OS upgrade took 2 years to finish.
	- Mismanaged configurations led to incidents.
	- Lack of good contracts between automation and human interactions led to unintended serioius consequences. 
- Replace `DefaultLinuxContainerRuntime` with `DockerLinuxContainerRuntime`
	- Support a default Docker image when NodeManager launches applications. This image contains all dependencies (python, numpy, scipy etc)
- Risks
	- Pulling Docker images during application container start time incurs additional overhead that could lead to timeouts. The solution is to distribute Docker images through Kraken, an open-source peer-to-peer Docker registry developed by Uber. We also pre-fetch the default application Docker image while starting the NodeManager container. This ensures that the default application Docker image is available before requests come in.
	- The containers run as the users who submit the application. The old system installs periodic snapshots of UserGroups definitions (generated by Active Directory) through Debian packages. This gave way to inconsistencies across the fleet, arising from package version differences and installation.
		- 
- All Hadoop Containers (DataNodes, NodeManagers) use volume mounts for storing data, which is deleted 24 hours after decommissioning of the Node from the host.
- Gradually flipped apps to be launched using the default Docker image during the course of migration. 
- A handful of customers who use custom Docker images that enable them to bring their own dependencies. 
- Uber operates 40+ clusters for different user cases and was using a single git repo to manage them all. The new system uses jinja templates, starlark generation of configs for different type of clusters, and runtime environment variable injection during deployment of Nodes. This reduced 200 XML config files of 66k lines to 4k lines in template and Starlark files. This makes the configs more readable and managable. 
- Discovery & Routing
	- Risk: moving NameNode and ResourceManager to different hosts has been troublesome. They typically result in rolling restarts of the entire Hadoop cluster and coordination with many customer teams to restart dependent services, as clients use hostnames to discover these nodes. To make it worse, certain clients tend to cache host IPs and do not re-resolve them on failure.
	- Hadoop is behind for supporting service mesh.
	- Instead, Uber choose to use DNS-based solution (HDFS-14118, HDFS-15785).
	- The standardized clients (with DNS support) and centralized configuration completely abstracts away the discovery and routing from Hadoop customers. It also provides a rich set of observability metrics and logging. 
- 

### 2023-03-10

What's involved in running Docker on Yarn?
- Why using containers?
	- Spark applications may require specific versions of dependencies, sometimes with conflicting versions. 
	- Virtualization solutions such as Virtualenv can be complex and inefficient due to per-application dependency downloads.
- How does it work?
	- When LCE (Linux Container Executor) launches a YARN container to execute in a Docker container, the application can specify the Docker image to be used.
	- Docker containers provide a custom execution environment in which the application's code runs, isolated from the execution environment of the NodeManager and other applications. 
	- Docker for YARN provides both consistency and isolation.
	- Configuration
			- The LCE requires that container-executor binary be owned by root:hadoop and have 6050 permissions.
			- The Docker daemon must be running on all NodeManager hosts where Docker containers will be launched. The Docker client must also be installed on all NodeManager hosts where Docker containers will be launched and able to start Docker containers.
			- To prevent timeouts while starting jobs, any large Docker images should already be loaded in the Docker daemon's cache on the NodeManager hosts.
	- Docker Image Requriements
		- The Docker container will be explicitly launched with the application owner as the container user. If the application owner is not a valid user in the Docker image, the application will fail. If the user's UID is different between the NodeManager host and the Docker image, the container may be launched as the wrong user or may fail.
		- The Docker image must have whatever is expected by the application in order to execute, including JRE, Hadoop libs, and envs.
		- If an application requests a Docker image that has not already been loaded by the Docker daemon on the host where it is to execute, the Docker daemon will Docker pull. Both MR and Spark assume that tasks which take more than 10 minutes to report progress have stalled, so large Docker image may cause the application to fail.
	- Application submission
		- Before launch a Docker container, make sure that the LCE configuration is working for applications requesting regular YARN containers.

### 2023-03-08

How does [Spark 3.x support GPU](https://www.databricks.com/session_na20/deep-dive-into-gpu-support-in-apache-spark-3-x)?
- Accelerator-Aware Scheduling (SPARK-24615), allows users to request resources at the Executor level, Driver level, and the Task level. It also allows those resources to be discovered on the nodes, and to determine what resources, were assigned to tasks and to the drivers. This feature support YARN.
	- There is an API for finding out the GPU assignment by task
	- There is a GPU scheduling UI in Spark UI, under the Executor tab and enable additional resources. You can verify you're asking for GPUs, and which GPUs you've actually been assigned.
	- Stage Level Scheduling (SPARK-27495) solves the problem where a lot of Spark applications are built with an ETL stage, and then they feed that into a ML stage. Without this, the long ETL stages will sit on nodes with wasted GPUs. This allows users to specify resource requirements per RDD operation, with `spark.task.resource.gpu.amount`.

### 2023-03-07

Jordan
- For V1, we need to make sure that we have a specific user flow that is working and supported. There are many hidden things that are not yet figured out. For example, how users define Python dependencies, CUDA libraries etc. How they define what kind of hardware and GPU they need. This can be related to the Spark-as-a-Service offering: the user can define hardware and software configurations, and throw it at the Spark-as-a-Service. The hardware configurations can be CPU/GPU, memory etc. Softwaare configurations can be tensorflow and version pair. We don't need to have the whole plan figured out, but we should have a path forward from PySpark to Spark-as-a-Service. 
- V1 should also have observability and debuggability offering etc. This is also a vague area.
- Ideally we can get our users to have a joined KR so they are committed to use PySpark for specific projects to realize specific business value. Emily Sander has many users asking for PySpark. She is not the person you directly talk to, but Sesh should know some people to talk to.
- Consider Flyte users. Most of Flyte users are using Flyte to schedule Tecton use cases.
- Tecton use cases are no-go for PySpark, because Tecton cannot connect in-house clusters. They only offer Databricks/EMR/Snowflake integration.
- It is OK to never have V1! It is possible that after doing alpha and beta we solved all the use cases that users have been asking for. 

Julia
- Responsible for Tecton work. Stef (from fraud team) is her first user.
- Tecton API to work, we need to open up network connectivity. 
	- Mainly in Databricks now, including scheduled notebooks.
	- Tecton to retire by the end of 2024, it is a bridging solution until we have in-house solution.
	- We don't plan to use PySpark for training, mostly for training data generation.
- Tecton uses Flyte to kick off PySpark jobs.
- ICP
	- model scoring is SOX scope, so will be ICP. 
	- model serving is ICP. Spark Structured Streaming. We won't support it in-house
- Stef: dynamic cluster is life changing on how to use Spark.
	- EMR-S is the solution.

Joshua
- How to measure success? 
	- We push PySpark because it's an industry standard, for people to learn Scala if they already know Python.
	- Measure Customer satisfaction, before and after, would you recommend that to a coworker. How long it takes to build.
	- How long it takes from first commit to PR?
	- There are cases that JVM does not work.
	- Unlock fast experimentation and fast iteration.
	- Hubble: how long it takes to build a pipeline (before and after Hubble pipeline)
- Secure Data Warehouse
	- Delta Table. Streaming/Microbatch
	- Unify them with the common databricks.
	- Joshua: they might be out of scope.
- Do we have a data science team?
	- Used to be DS Core. Some of them just work for tooling for other data scientests, some work on canonical tables.
	- 25-30 data analysises spread out.
	- ML
	- Risk, Merchant Fraud.
	- Talk to Casey Stella, he may be able to give you a bird's eye view. I don't know if they are still doing that. My sense is that 
		- Sheperd, Tecton (mostly PySpark)
		- Flyte integration is potentially interesting.

Dmitry
-  Sherperd. How 
-  Customization for specific team? 
-  Talk to Richard about Sesh’s involvement. He is very sharp and is very transparent. I am sure he has some good story behind this.  Make sure be explicit and have him gavel that. 
-  You should add back the effort estimation to the roll-out plan. As a success criteria for each milestone. Success criteria is usually measured by business impact. For example, we enable PySpark. 
-  It’s important to define success and align on that.
- Regarding Observability, can you share your opinion? Even if we make a judgement call, we depend on your recommendation.


Agenda with Mick
- can we use flyte to replace airflow for pyspark? Is there any connection between flyte and airflow now?
- Does your team own Railyard? How do you manage the CUDA libraries?


### 2023-03-02

What does it mean by SLA support?
- looks like users can set up pager-duty alert for SLA.
- Looks like [Airflow supports alerting](https://confluence.corp.stripe.com/display/DATAPLAT/The+Complete+Guide+to+Airflow+Task+Alerting).

Josh Sack meeting ([notes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1E7-bi_Yw2dyC9WCubzRgLjFAdyK4mQ6TgEublLXZoIE/edit))
- We use databricks only for PySpark.
- Images, selfies, documents. We train image models. The training using railyard.
- hundreds of thousands images in training
- pain: we have to manually run the notebook. Airflow please.
- airflow weekly/bi-weekly schedule.
	- databricks: 48 i34x, 1024 cores (takes 700 vcores). It takes 20 minutes to run.
- RDD: RDD is easier. 
	- We don't do join, just parallelize, 
- SLA: doesn't matter, as long as its not a day. 
- Development cycle 
- Databricks on Spark 3.2 version.
- Only have 1 model that we manually run now, we have 4 or 5 models that can benefit from this.

What questions to ask for PySpark beta users?
- Dependencies
	- Would Spark 3.1.3 OK with you? 
	- What API and dependencies do you have? 
	- Are you OK with the zoolander Python dependency? 
	- Are you OK with some of them [not compatible with Graviton](https://git.corp.stripe.com/gist/yichen/9c91082f4879e86d99046141511da849)? 
	- Do you need CUDA dependencies?
	- Do you need GPU?
- Timeline:
	- When we are ready, how much effort do you anticipate to write your PySpark jobs? 
	- Do you already have them in Databricks? 
	- Can you get it shipped in Q2 or Q3?
- SLA and Support
	- Do you currently run or maintain any jobs in Hadoop?
	- What is SLA expectations for you? Do you plan to only have SLA pager during business hours?
	- Do you already have experience with other data pipelines in production? What kind of support do you foresee?
- Cost
	- How much does your job cost now in Databricks? How many vcoreseconds?


How does ICP work and what does it mean for PySpark?
- ICP = Internal Controls Platform. All Spark jobs that handle financially relevant data are legally subject to compliance controls, and have to run on ICP infrastructure that enforces these controls. 
- Spark jobs have to be opt-out of ICP scope, by adding `ICPScope.OUT_OF_SCOPE` to `def task_annotations()` method in the airflow task class.
- The only reliable way we have to tell who ran a job is the host type. Generally that ends up being `airflow` or `hadoopdatanodei`.
- We set up `airflowicp` and `hadoopdatanodeicp` nodes to tell the difference between ICP and non-ICP.
- [How](https://confluence.corp.stripe.com/display/BATCOM/How+To+Ensure+Your+Job+Is+SOX+Compliant#HowToEnsureYourJobIsSOXCompliant-DetermineIfYouAreIn-Scope) developing ICP job may differ from the standard Zoolander experience?
	- There is a difference in developing ICP jobs.


How does SAL work? What's involved to support PySpark?
- The motivation is to abstract the concept of S3 location away from the data pipeline authors. Instead of referencing a physical file location (e.g. `s3://stripe-data/costs/metrics/scheme/unioned_invoice_items_ops/20200509`), we want to reference them in a more abstracted, productive way. The S3 file location may be more useful for snapshot dataset (because there is no version/timestamp in the path), it is not helpful to capture the dynamic portion of the S3 path, which include the version (which is a day stamp) and partition (which is a partition string)
- The `version` concept is connected to Airflow's execution time. The same value could appear as `partition` instead of `version`. For example, for incremental processing, the same day-stamp is a partition value, `s3://stripe-data/events/s3_prefix_annotation/day=20200209`.
- Also we need to capture some lifecycle policy rules. Purging versions and partitions depending on how the storage layout is. Sometimes it means purging older versions, soemtimes it means purging older partitions.
- SAL offers a naming standard, abstraction of mapping from S3 path to tables, and a structured representation of datasets.
- SAL is used in both Airflow and a user's Spark job:
	- `output` should return a `DataSource`. Why?
	- One output can be referenced as input in the downstream task as the value for the `table_input` attribute.
- In Spark, import `com.stripe.sal.SALDataFrameExtensions._`, which is defined as a Scala `trait`.
	- `implicit class SALDataFrameReader(val dfr: DataFrameReader` This implicit class allows us to extend the DataFrameReader class, such that new methods defined in this implicit class becomes available whenver `DataFrameReader` is used. 
	- This means that SAL added the following methods to DataFrameReader. Looks like the `source` is for DataFrame, while `sourceWithSchema` is for Dataset (with Encoder).
		- sourceWithSchema
		- source
	- `SALDataFrameWriter` is a case class instead, which provids the following public methods:
		- mode, format, option, options, partitionBy, json, parquet, orc, text, csv.

### 2023-02-28

How does Flyte launch Spark jobs in Scala today, and what does that mean for PySpark?
- `src/python/flyte/ml_exploration/example/BUILD`
- Each Flyte project has a bazel build target. This target defines the flyte workflow and py_binary and their dependencies.
- This build target contains 4 main build rules:
	- workflow, which is the top-level flyte workflow rule. It references the dependencies for a `py_library` and a `py_binary`. The `py_library` contains all the Python packages that the job depends on, including pandas, xgboost, etc. 
	- The `workflow` rule's `wf_py_binary` points to the `py_binary` rule named `:main`, which include the Python main.py file. Interestingly, it lists the same `py_library` rule as dependency (because this python file will import those same packages), and reference the `workflow_spark_job_group` rule as the `data` attribute. That is, the Scala build target will be made available for the Python binary during runtime.
- What is `workflow_spark_job_group` rule? It produces an artifact of given Spark jobs to be included in Flyte workflows. Instead of using individual stand-alone job targets, where each target is built separately, this target builds all the Spark jobs together and will remove duplicate deps. That is, it takes a list of jobs as input. Actually, that's all what it does, define the `deps` attributes as the list of jobs. But in our example, there is only one job which is the `hello_world_deploy` job.
- What's `spark_deploy` rule? It is actually a packaged rule from Bazel, not Stripe specific. This rule depends on a `scala_library` rule which defines the scala source file for the job `HelloWorld.scala`.

How is Scala Spark jobs scheduled by Airflow today?
- Each task is defined in a Python class in the `zoolander/tasks/data_platform.py` file. This class inherites from `SparkTask`.


### 2023-02-24

Spoke with Helen regarding in-house PySpark clusters:
- Concord and indigo for ICP and non-ICP 

### 2023-02-22

Questions
- Do our users use GPU on Databricks?
- Should we prioritize the release based on the beta users who can commit engineering time with us?
- Should we deprioritize the dev/test loop in roll-out plan? What does this mean?
- What's the Flyte user experience? Can users run Flyte/PySpark jobs locally? If so, where? 
- How are the basic dependencies (like pandas, pyarrow) installed today in Hadoop?


Learnings
- [Zynga](https://www.slideshare.net/databricks/democratizing-pyspark-for-mobile-game-publishing): 
	- use development clusters with fixed library versions, and all scheduled jobs run on ephemeral clusters. New development clusters are rolled out following major releases. Why? How does this affect Stripe?
	- Jobs have backup owners and are mapped to teams (avoid orphaned jobs from single owners)
	- Robust jobs are migrated to Airflow.
	- Automated Tagging for cost tracking.
- [Clinical Suspecting at Scale using PySpark](https://www.slideshare.net/databricks/clinical-suspecting-at-scale-using-pyspark)
	- Issues:
		- Pandas/Pandas+Ray run into OOM (solved by using Parquet instead of CSV)
		- .apply() in pandas was painfully slow due to complex logic
		- UDFs run slow with PySpark. Solution: define schema of the dataframe to be created with exact data type, resulted in 3X speed up in UDFs with parquet files.
		- Spark hates wide dataframes! Drop all the irrelevant columns in a data category.
		- Joins are painfully slow -> break into smaller dataframes based on themes, less greedy, limit joins.
		- Timeouts & multiple retries

### 2023-02-20
- Habib: 
	- Talk to real customers. Don't wait on Sesh, he will be gone as soon as GA.
	- Hoping to GA by the end of Q2. Let's get a detailed roll-out plan with estimates, get input from Paul and Jordan before going out for larger review.


To run a helloworld PySpark job:
```
SPARK_VERSION="3.1" DISABLED_UNSCOPED_TASK="False" bin/run-spark src/python/data_productivity/pyspark_example:oranges --app-name pyspark.data_platform.PySparkPackageTest
```


[PySpark Runbook](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1emlZI2fvacm8Ru2ujk3r3mb9u3vgtM08AZdIIIkd3ZI/edit)

[How I think Spark jobs are launched](https://whimsical.com/how-i-think-spark-jobs-are-launched-Mr19cTn9QoqVAqXjLVBrwx)

## [PySpark Project Plan 2023](https://docs.google.com/document/d/12i0ewYk6x1G_Kftq6m9-5MQDL_Sq0v-gC_acWP0t4e0/edit)
- By the end of Q1, selected beta users are able to run usable prototype PySpark jobs on an internal cluster. In Q2, PySpark pipeline developers will be able to use Stripe-specific abstractions to enforce best practices, run jobs with production level reliability, and define custom per-job Python dependencies.


## [PySpark Design Document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/14BiofV4Cz77y70R3cidXy4kcf1HJU6RUdKfdql-qs-4/edit#)
- What will be supported
	- Introduce data job bundles for PySpark, similar to [Horizon bundle](https://confluence.corp.stripe.com/pages/viewpage.action?pageId=366582601), a PySpark data job bundle groups of related PySpark applications, owned by a single team, that share a common Python environment and source files. These bundles will be defined through Bazel and will build a single bundle artifact.
		- Data Platform will maintain a default bundle with a Python environment containing a common set of dependencies.
		- Risk: Addition of custom Python environments would add pressure on zoolander deploy size over time. Metigation: PySpark bundles will be stored in S3 upon deploy rather than materialized on disk. When launched from airflow, these build artifacts will be copied from S3 as YARN resources for Hadoop.
		- See [PySpark Data Bundle Options](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1kPjxn2CMUzpzpnoZBnlY-QU7OTP9j9PGlYHZIm3Wkgc/edit#heading=h.27hlb0durgzr)
	- Scheduling
		- Airflow will be the primary supported orchestration. 
		- Flyte will also be supported. Initial support will be similar to how Spark Scala jobs are submitted today.
	- Development Experience
		- Notebooks as a first-class dev environment for PySpark. This will be supported through tooling which allows the user to seamlessly transfer PySpark app code to and from a Databricks notebook.
		- Sampling: input datasets can be sampled using sampling hooks. Require samping pushdown in Spark 3.3.0
- What's not supported
	- Closer integration with Flyte, such as PySpark method that can return arbitrary Python output which could be mixed into a Flyte task is not in scope.

How does the JVM Launcher work for PySpark?

JVM Launcher is a Stripe internal Scala program. It programically launch a Spark application. It sits at `zoolander/data_common/src/scala/com/stripe/spark/launcher`. We added a new flag `isPythonSource` to tell the launcher that this is a PySpark job instead of a JVM Spark job. If so, we skip validating the jar step (which validate the jar files in the given path contain spark app `main_class`). This launcher only launch scolding and Spark jobs before. We modified it to also able to launch PySpark jobs.

JVM Launcher is called from bin/run-spark script. It will build a standalone deploy, which have pyspark and py4j libs. Risk here is that zoolander already uses pyspark 3.3 from some gelato code

2016 Spark Summit: Getting the best performance with PySpark
https://www.databricks.com/session/getting-the-best-performance-with-pyspark

2015 Best Practices for Running PySpark
https://www.databricks.com/session/best-practices-for-running-pyspark

[SPARK-32082: Project Zen: Improving Python usability](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-32082)

[2020: Databricks: An update on Project Zen](https://www.databricks.com/blog/2020/09/04/an-update-on-project-zen-improving-apache-spark-for-python-users.html)



